=============
Core concepts
=============

Flow
====

Viewflow adds the additional layer to the standard Django
Model-View-Template trio.

The :doc:`viewflow_core_flow` Layer is responsible for managing
inner-task dependencies, allows extract flow logic out of View, leave
in them only CRUD functionality.

.. image:: _static/ViewflowCore.png
   :class: responsive-img

Each :doc:`attribute <viewflow_core_node>` of the flow represents a
flow task or gateway. A task could be a human action, synchronous or
asynchronous Python job or even handler. Gateway is a non-interactive
node that decides what tasks should be activated next.

To connect flow tasks altogether the special :doc:`this
<viewflow_core_this>` object can be used to make references
to flow nodes or flow methods before they are declared.

.. code-block:: python

    from viewflow import flow
    from viewflow.base import this, Flow

    class SampleFlow(Flow):
        start = flow.Start(my_view).Next(this.task)

        task = flow.Handler(perform_task).Next(this.check_status)

        check_status = flow.If(this.is_completed) \
            .Then(this.end).Else(this.task)

        end = flow.End()

        def perform_task(self, activation):
             activation.process.completed = random.randint(0, 1)

        def is_completed(self, activation):
            retun activation.process.completed
        
At runtime each node is represented as a task :doc:`activation
<viewflow_core_activation>` instance. Activation instance is
responsible for precondition check, task and process state transition
management, and next tasks instantiation. Each flow node could have
own activation implementation, with any interface as you like. All
built-in activations are very similar, ex, you can expect that all
activations have methods `.cancel()`, `.undo()`, that cancels an
active task, and revert completed respectively.


.. code-block:: python

    @flow.flow_view
    def cancel_task_view(request, **kwargs):
        if not activation.cancel.can_proceed():
             return redirect('index')

        if request.method == 'POST':
             activation.cancel()
             return redirect('index')

        return render(request, 'cancel_task.html')

Database
========

In a database, state of the flows is stored in the two Process/Task
:doc:`models <viewflow_core_models>`, task and process states are
managed by tasks activation classes

.. image:: _static/Models.png
   :class: responsive-img

Locking
=======

To avoid concurrent flow updates viewflow can use short-time
pessimistic :doc:`locking <viewflow_core_locks>` on a process
instance. Entire view and handler's code is executed under lock. For
the background jobs, lock acquired only at the start and at the end of
a job.

Locking is not enabled by default. You need to choose proper lock
implementation and enable it.

.. code-block:: python

    from viewflow import lock

    class SampleFlow(Flow):
        lock_impl = lock.select_for_update_lock

Views
=====

Viewflow core is independent of a particular view implementation. With
viewflow, you can use both class-based views and functional based
views. :doc:`viewflow.flow <viewflow_flow>` package provides standard
django template based views.

Each viewflow view expects to get `flow_task` and `flow_class` from
the URL config. Task views also expect that `process_pk` and `task_pk`
are present in the URL.

To get an activation in a view, you can use one of :doc:`decorators
<viewflow_core_decorators>` shortcuts that would proceed URL
parameters set the lock and instantiate process, task, and activation
instances.

.. image:: _static/ViewflowView.png
   :class: responsive-img


URLs
====

`Flow.urls` contains all views and task actions URLs and can be used
directly in the URL config. `viewflow.flow.viewset.FlowViewset` and
`viewflow.rest.view.FlowViewset` builds a URL config that contains
list views (ex: inbox) besides. If you use the viewflow frontend, no
specific URL configuration is required.

.. code-block:: python

    ulrpatterns = [
        path('sampleflow/', SampleFlow.instance.urls)
    ]

or, with build-in list views:

.. code-block:: python

    from viewflow.flow.viewset import FlowViewSet
    
    ulrpatterns = [
        path('sampleflow/', FlowViewSet(SampleFlow).urls)
    ]

or, in the case of viewflow frontend

.. code-block:: python

   from material.frontend import urls as frontend_urls

    urlpatterns = [
        path(r'', include(frontend_urls)),
    ]

Error handling
==============

Viewflow provides two different strategies for an :doc:`error handling
<viewflow_core_exceptions>`. For view tasks, any exception in
subsequent task activation would rollback the whole transaction, and
view task will be available for end user again, for the case if they
can change input data to pass.For the jobs, jobs result committed as
soon as job ends. If an error happens in a subsequent task, the
subsequent task will be saved in error state and available for an
administrator for further processing in django admin. Error handling
strategy could be customized in activation class.

.. image:: _static/ViewflowError.png
   :class: responsive-img

Flow migration
==============

Viewflow keeps only task names in the database. No action required to
add a new task or change task connections.

To rename a task, you can create a django data migration, with simple
SQL Update statement

.. code-block:: python
    
    migrations.RunSQL("""
        UPDATE viewflow_task SET flow_task='helloworld/flows.MyFlow.new_name'
        WHERE flow_task='helloworld/flows.MyFlow.old_name'
    """)

If you would like to delete a task from flow definition but leave
database without changes, you can add a special :class:`Obsolete
<viewflow.flow.obsolete.Obsolete>` node to your flow. An Obsolete node
will provide a view to seeing the historical task state, and ability
to admins to cancel active obsolete tasks. No further database content
changes are required.

.. code-block:: python

    from viewflow import flow

    class SampleFlow(Flow):
        obsolete = flow.Obsolete()


Viewflow frontend
=================

Viewflow frontend speeds up flow UI development as quickly as django
admin does for the CRUD. Frontend provide ready you use HTML/CSS theme
based on material design, and flow list and action views. To start
using it, you need only :doc:`turn it on <viewflow_frontend>` and
register a flow.

.. code-block:: python

    from viewflow import frontend

    @frontend.register
    class SampleFlow(Flow):
        ...


Further Options
===============

Any web project with viewflow library is still the django project, you
can use any `reusable app <http://djangopackages.com>`_ available for
the django web framework or any `Python Library
<https://github.com/vinta/awesome-python>`_

.. image:: _static/Pony.png
   :class: responsive-img
        
Table of Contents
=================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :titlesonly:

   viewflow_core_flow
   viewflow_core_node
   viewflow_core_this
   viewflow_core_activation
   viewflow_core_models
   viewflow_core_decorators
   viewflow_core_locks
   viewflow_core_exceptions
   viewflow_core_signals
